(bright music)
(light typing)
In this section,
we're going to look at lists.
The list is an abstract data type and in the next video,
we're going to go over what an abstract data type is.
So a list isn't a concrete data structure,
it's an abstract data type.
And when it comes to abstract data types,
normally there's an interface involved
and list is no exception.
In Java, the lists that we're gonna look at in this section
all implement the java.util.list interface,
so that's what I have on this screen.
Classes that implement the list interface represent
an ordered collection also known as a sequence.
There are quite a few classes that implement list.
We're not gonna look at all of them.
We are gonna look at a few.
We're gonna look at array list.
We're going to look linked list.
We'll look at those two in this section.
We're also gonna look at vector.
There's also an abstract list class
and an abstract sequential list.
If you want to implement the list interface,
you want to create a custom implementation
rather than starting with list itself and implementing that,
it's a good idea to instead extend abstract list
and abstract sequential list
because there are scoledo implementations
of the list interface and so they kind of give you
a head start and all you have to do is override the methods
that you specifically want to implement
if you want custom behaviour.
So if you are going to implement a custom list,
its a good idea to extend one of these two classes.
So lets just look at a few of the methods in here.
You'll see we have add, so we can add items to the list.
We can check to see whether a list contains an object.
We can get an object from the list if we have its index.
We can find the index of an object in the list.
We can check whether a list is empty.
We can remove objects from the list.
We can find out using the size method
how many items are in the list
and we can get the array that's backing a list
and we're gonna see what that means
in the next couple of videos.
Now some of the classes we're gonna look at in this section,
like array list, you've probably worked with before.
Array list is a really popular class
but we're gonna dig a little deeper.
We're gonna actually look at some of the array list code
to see what's going on under the covers.
Okay, so when we're dealing with lists,
we're dealing with an ordered sequence,
so the data is organised sequentially
just as it is in an array and we're gonna see
in a couple of videos that a popular way to implement
the list interface is to use an array.
So let's move on now and take a quick look
at what an abstract data type is.
I'll see you in the next video.